Speaker 1: So this is going to be an open-ended semi-structured interview. You need to answer me based upon your experience after this experiment. So what role does the various audio experiences play for you to get around in the virtual environment? 

Speaker 2: I believe the audio really helped me in getting around without the audio. I feel like it would have been super difficult for me to go around. So yeah, it played a great part. 

Speaker 1: Okay, so again, in what way did it help you navigate in the virtual environment, do you 

Speaker 2: think? Sometimes when I wasn't sure of the textures, I was feeling hearing people speak or hearing what I felt was the texture, the sound of the texture actually really helped me. 

Speaker 1: So could you share different kinds of audio you encountered in the VR space? 

Speaker 2: I encountered people talking. I encountered the sound of the wind, the sound of cars and buses, the sound of the wind. Just like music and people just doing their natural things, the sound of construction sound and then the sound of the textures, the floors, the grass or the gravel. 

Speaker 1: So what characteristics of the audio can you recall from your drafts formed? How do you mean? Like the audio you heard, what specific characteristics or attributes or nature of the audio you think you experienced? 

Speaker 2: So I think different things have different sounds. So for example, if it was the gravel, the gravel is rougher than the regular road or, as I said, the sound of the wind kind of helped me know I was close to the road, the sound of cars and then I'm about to cross the road or whatever or near the bus stop. 

Speaker 1: So how would you compare the audio of the simulation with that of a real life scenario? 

Speaker 2: I think it was pretty close, especially for the bus stop sound. You know how you were like, oh, it sounds exactly like the Halifax. I don't know if it's okay. 

Just try to think how does it sound when you're trying to cross the road. And it was very similar. So I think it's very indicative of how it is in real life. 

Speaker 1: So can you walk me through your decision making process when you were doing the navigation without visuals? What was going through your mind? 

Speaker 2: I think first of all, the first things that came to my mind was what are you hearing? So the sound was the first thing I paid attention to and then what are you feeling? And then yeah, that was it. 

And then just when I hear, then I confirm by feeling and then I also hear, like I also hear for the sound of things around me, which I was told to look out for. So basically that was what was involved in my decision process. 

Speaker 1: So like the decision making process that you made during the task, when you were not able to see how do you think it would be different if you had to do the task with visuals? How the decision making process changed? 

Speaker 2: Oh, it definitely helped me see what I was working with. So yeah, I think it helped, but the difference was I could just see. And when I could see, I could know what to do and where to go. And I was like, oh, I see people dancing. And I know, okay, I'm near here or whatever. So yeah, that was pretty much how it was for me. 

Speaker 1: So when you were doing the first task, that is to differentiate between the surface. Apart from what you heard and felt through the game, did you hear any external natural vibration and sound? When the real king was interacting with the real surface, did you hear any external sound or vibration? So when you were doing the first task, you could feel and hear the sound. So apart from that, did you hear any extra sound or vibration when the thing was actually touching the surface and stuff? 

Speaker 2: That was different from the practice when I first held it. That's with the cane, right? Yes, I think I did hear the sound of wind, for example, but I think it was the same. It wasn't different from when I practiced. 

Speaker 1: So how do you think the vibrations of the virtual surfaces? 

Speaker 2: So that I cannot fully tell because I've never really had to go, you know, rubbing across like grass or the road or the... But I think it was just something where I had to just imagine in my head. And I know like physically gravel is a bit noisy when you're walking through gravel. And then the roads are more solid and very similar to like the sidewalks. I remember saying, oh, like East to feel so similar. So yeah, I think... 

Speaker 1: Okay, so you can say for sure how the electricity goes. 

Speaker 2: I can. 

Speaker 1: Okay, so when you did the first task, do you prefer feedback from any particular sense, such as audio or vibration, or do you think both are equally important? 

Speaker 2: I think both are equally important because even though I'm not an expert, I do feel like there was probably a difference in vibration between like some things that were very similar. For example, the road and the sidewalk feel like their vibrations might have been where you could tell the difference. So yeah. 

Speaker 1: So if you have to choose audio and vibration, audio only and vibration only what would you choose? 

Speaker 2: Audio and vibration. 

Speaker 1: So when you're doing the second and third task, the road crossing and scavenger hunt, so how would you compare your experience between tasks that you did with and without pressure? When I was doing the road crossing and scavenger hunt, you did both of the tasks with and without the blindfold, right? How would you compare that? 

Speaker 2: That's with visuals and without visuals. How would you compare that experience? It was definitely better without visuals. 

Speaker 1: Better without visuals? Sorry, with visuals. 

Speaker 2: With visuals. But it wasn't completely horrible without visuals. Yeah, definitely better with visuals. 

Speaker 1: What specific thing did you define to be better with visuals? 

Speaker 2: It was faster. I could see what I was going to look, what I was looking for faster. And I think for walking, for example, when I couldn't see, well, I think the walk felt longer when I could see because I could now see the distance. When I couldn't see, I was just... But yeah, I think the when you can see is definitely better. 

Speaker 1: So did you encounter any problems during the second and third tasks? without visual? 

Speaker 2: Without visual? Yes, sometimes I think the problem would be just you having to depend on what you can hear. Sometimes I'll be like, you know, I'll be straining my ears for specific sounds or cues. But I think, yeah, that would say like... 

Speaker 1: Okay. So do you think there were any benefits to performing these tasks without visuals? Yeah, definitely. What benefits did you think you'd be aware of? 

Speaker 2: For me, I think it helps me see like, you know, kind of like, that's the word. It just helps me see from the perspective of people who can't see. And then it also helps you kind of use your other senses more, your ears especially. Yeah, your... would I say sense of touch? Because I don't know if it was by hearing it or by feeling it, I'm not sure. But I think your ears, yeah, so it just helps you use your other senses more. 

Speaker 1: Yeah. So if you had to do this experience experiment in the real world, with the blindfolds and the cane, who would you be able to do it? 

Speaker 2: I would have wanted to do it. I'm probably so scared. Okay. But with proper guidance, I could try, but yeah, it's not my first. I don't think I wanted to. 

Speaker 1: Okay. All right. So you think you would be more careful and cautious of the surroundings? Definitely. Okay. So does that mean you were less careful when you were in the simulation? 

Speaker 2: I think I was less careful. However, I was also still worried. Do you remember me saying like hope the cars didn't... Hope the cars are not coming or whatever, but like definitely would be more careful in real life. Okay. This is, yeah, life we're talking about. Sure. 

Speaker 1: So based on your experience, what do you think? Will this system be useful for as a training tool for people who have just lost sight? 

Speaker 2: Absolutely. I think it's very useful for people who just lost their sight because yeah, I think so. You can get to train like and being like the real scenario without actually being in the real scenario. So I think with practice here, they'll find it easier navigating the real world. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So when you were doing the navigation stuff, that is the role crossing and scavenging on, what was the role of the cane for you? Um, the cane helped me... 

Speaker 2: I think the cane was vibration. How did it help you? It helped me confirm sound. Okay. Yeah, that's what I'll say. And then I think it also made a sound. Yeah, so it was sound and vibration. It helped me navigate on the speech. Because yeah, especially when I was, you know, blindfolded, that was the only thing I could work with. So yeah. 

Speaker 1: Okay. So do you think you forgot about it because there were so many audios, like other sources of audios? Or do you think you actually used it? The cane? Yeah. 

Speaker 2: No, I don't think I forgot about the cane. Okay, so you actually used it? I think so. 

Speaker 1: So what do you think about using the cane in terms of immersion? Do you think it's useful to have a cane? Or do you think like, if you had done it with only a VR controller, it would be the same? 

Speaker 2: For the purpose of this, I think a cane is necessary because you can't see like, oh that's you're not trying to walk. So the cane does help you, you know, navigate compared to VR controllers. 

Speaker 1: So what are your thoughts on using the slide moves for navigation? Slide moves. Slide moves was the thing that you walked on. Okay, this. 

Speaker 2: It's necessary, right? I have to walk, right? 

Speaker 1: But what are your views on using the slide moves? 

Speaker 2: Sometimes it's a bit difficult. You need too much effort. For me, I was having to like walk like a filter, which I don't usually do. So yeah, I think it needs a little more effort to move. 

Speaker 1: So do you think it positively or negatively affects the level of immersion of the game? 

Speaker 2: I would say negatively, unfortunately, because if you have to put in so much effort, I think you get tired quickly. Yeah. 

Speaker 1: So how do you find it different from natural walking? 

Speaker 2: When I'm walking naturally, I do have to put as much effort. 

Speaker 1: In terms of effort, you think it's different from naturally walking? Yeah. So talking about realism, what do you think about the wooden platform that is around the slide move? What do you think how it helps you? What was the role of that? 

Speaker 2: That was literally the role in platform. So of course it was very helpful. 

Speaker 1: So do you think how it helps you in the game platform? It helps me navigate. So how immersed do you think the system would be for someone with actual visual impairment? So for someone who has been blind for a while, do you think the system would be immersive for them? 

Speaker 2: I think so. Once they get used to what textures they're feeling? 

Speaker 1: How do you think that would be immersive for someone who's blind? 

Speaker 2: Could you explain, because I feel like I got what you meant by immersive, but since you're re-asking me. 

Speaker 1: Yeah, immersive as in like you said, it would be immersive once they get used to the textures. Just asking in what way do you think it would be immersive? Oh, because they have the texture. 

Speaker 2: They're not just walking. It's very inclusive and accessible for them because they have the board which in the virtual reality is actually like the textures they feel from the stick. So I think it's immersive for them. They can participate and feel like they're part of it. 

Speaker 1: So did this experiment change your level of empathy or awareness towards people with visual impairment? I think so. Can you explain how it changed your views or level of empathy? 

Speaker 2: Well, I've always had empathy for them. So I don't know if it's particularly changing, but it just, you know, it made me feel a little more like, I think I've always felt empathy. I don't know, but it did give me more insight on how their everyday life could be hard, you know, just navigating. 

Speaker 1: So the final question. What is your overall feedback on the system and what improvements do you think could be made overall? 

Speaker 2: I think it's very good. So a lot of effort. I think it's really nice. The only thing I could say is maybe if it could require less effort in walking, making it more natural. Yeah, I think that's it. 