Speaker 1: Interview question participant number 12. So this is going to be an open-ended semi-structured interview and you need to give me answer based on your experience after this experiment. Okay, so let's start with the first question. What role did various audio experiences play for you to get around in the virtual environment? 

Speaker 2: Initially when you are testing the gravel road, sidewalk and all those, the sound played the major role for me. I was not having proper understanding of different surface through the feedback from the cane. I was relying on the sound itself. 

Speaker 1: Okay, so how did they help you to get around like navigate? 

Speaker 2: Yeah, based on the sound. Like if it's light on the road, if you touch the cane on the road, the vibration is even more and even sound is more. But at the same time if you touch the grass, there is no sound but you do feel a little bit of vibration from the cane. 

Speaker 1: Okay, so that's how you decided to get around. Okay, so could you share the different kinds of audio you encountered in the VR space, the different categories of audio that you heard in the VR space? 

Speaker 2: Yes, one was like feedback from the surface, the sound of the surface when you touch the cane. The other was like traffic lights, people, something, children's playing and vehicles from going from right to left, left to right, all those. Okay, that's all? 

Speaker 1: So what particular characteristics of the spatial audio can you recall from the tasks performed? Like what are the attributes or characteristics of the audio that you can recall from the tasks? 

Speaker 2: One was that I still remember that I was trying to cross the road, I decided to change the course based on the way traffic vehicle sound was flowing from left to right. So once I turned to the other side, I could see that the traffic is flowing from straight, so I had to walk straight. 

Speaker 1: Okay, so you remember the directional characteristics of the audio? Okay, so how do you compare this audio experience of the city simulation in VR with that of a real life scenario? 

Speaker 2: It includes a lot of those real life scenarios, for example traffic lights when traffic becomes green for pedestrians, that those sounds, someone standing on the bus stand, people talking, children's playing, the sound of those surface when you touch the cane, all those. So you think it's close enough? It's close enough. 

Speaker 1: So can you walk me through your decision making process during the navigational tasks when you had more visuals to help you? 

Speaker 2: So first was the first I relied on the instruction light at the start of the task, he was saying it should be in the straight or left and then from there I started building and I was relying on the sound that I was getting in the headphone and traffic directions. 

Speaker 1: So those were the decisions? 

Speaker 2: Decisions. Okay, so how differently do you think you would think you would take those navigational decisions if you had to do the task with visuals? How would it change? 

Speaker 2: I didn't have to do it. 

Speaker 1: But let's just suppose if you had to do the same task, how does your decision making change in terms of navigation? 

Speaker 2: It's visible then I 100% rely on the visual context rather than on audio or the feedback on the cane. 

Speaker 1: So it would be more towards the visual aspect? 

Speaker 2: Visual aspect. 

Speaker 1: So during the first task, did you feel and hear any external natural vibration and or sound emitted from the real cane interacting with the actual surface? Can you repeat the question again? So you heard the rendered vibration through the cane and the rendered audio through the headphones, right? Apart from that, when the real cane was interacting with the real surface, did you recall hearing any natural vibration or sound? 

Speaker 2: I don't recall that. Sound for yes, sound I did, but again vibration it was very confusing for me. 

Speaker 1: No, no, no. I mean from the external surface, like there was a real surface and the real cane. 

Speaker 2: No, no, I was not able to hear those. Here and here you wouldn't hear that. 

Speaker 1: So how realistic do you think the... 

Speaker 2: Occasionally, cane doesn't give you the vibrational feedback. You can hear the sound but it doesn't give you the vibrational feedback. And that times you does feel like, okay, you are rubbing some other surface. 

Speaker 1: Okay, okay. So how realistic do you think the haptic profile of the virtual surfaces are? 

Speaker 2: Realistic I... I can't compare it because this was my first experience to compare it with I should have any previous experience. So because I don't have, I can't compare it. 

Speaker 1: Okay, so but how realistic enough do you think those haptics... Can be. Okay. 

Speaker 2: For road, I think it's perfect. For gravel, it's okay. For grass is also for metal. I was, I was not sure. A lot of time, I... couple of time I was confused with metal with pedestrian roads. 

Speaker 1: Okay, okay. All right. So while talking about task one, do you prefer feedback from any particular source such as audio or haptic? Or do you believe both are equally important for maximum effectiveness? 

Speaker 2: No, for me, audio was giving me more clue than any other other thing. 

Speaker 1: So if you had to choose between audio and haptic, I'll choose audio. Audio and haptic. First option is audio and haptic. Second is audio only. And third is haptics only. Among those three, what would you choose? 

Speaker 2: Obviously first, audio and haptic because there are times especially on the grass and gravel you do... I was able to identify the proper feedback on the cane. 

Speaker 1: Okay, okay. So it's audio and haptic and second one is audio. Audio. Okay. So for the task two and three, road crossing and scavenger hunt, how would you compare your experience between tasks done with and without visuals? 

Speaker 2: I think a task without visual arts was difficult. You had to rely on the clues. As I said, my major clue was from directional of traffic, from people's voice and signals, traffic light signals, sound. But when I was doing it without blindfolded, I do not had to rely on any of those things. Even that I can see like traffic is flowing. I was not giving any focus to those traffic, how the traffic is flowing. I was 100% relying on the feedback on this one. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So what problems if there are any, did you encounter doing tasks two and three? Two and three. 

Speaker 2: When I was doing visual, I was able to locate the locations properly. But I believe if I was doing blindfolded, my directional senses was not that good. Okay. I was able to reach to the locations, for example, entering to the park it, I probably might have entered through the wall. Okay. Or walking on the pavement, instead of walking on the pavement, I might have walked through the grass. I did in fact walk through the grass. I remember. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So you think like the exact path to the target was something of a problem? Something was a problem. Okay. So do you think there are any benefits to performing these tasks without visual arts? Did you find any benefits? Without visual arts? Yes. Benefits? Benefits. In what sense? In any sense. Or like did you find there was any beneficial aspect to performing these tasks without visual arts? 

Speaker 2: Without visual arts? Yeah. I mean when I was blindfolded, I was performing the task. I had to, I knew it. at the what kind of target I have but when I gained little bit of more experience using the cane and relying on the sound aspect but again those experience didn't work for me when I was doing it without blindfold because I was 100% relying on my visual aspect. 

Speaker 1: So how do you relate this experience of performing the navigational task without visuals if you had to do it in the real world? 

Speaker 2: I think these simulations may help especially with the people who are blind to gain if someone is transitioning from you know transitioning to walk on the road independently then these kind of training or feedback may help. 

Speaker 1: No but like if you had to do this task the road crossing and scavenger hunt with the blindfold on with the cane in the real life in outburst. For me? Yeah how do you think you would do or why won't you do it? 

Speaker 2: I won't do it because I won't do it but the reason is because my majority of the queue comes from visual that's how I walk right now in even in real life. 

Speaker 1: Why do you think you won't be able to do it or you won't do it? 

Speaker 2: The reason is because when I was walking I when I was walking blindfolded and then after that I was walking with visual I can I could see the difference. I could feel the even difference like for example on one time I was near the hot dog stand it was difficult for me to identify how far I was standing from the hot dog stand but that was not the case between I was doing visual. 

Speaker 1: So do you think you would be more cautious and more careful and more all the way that's why you want to do it? Do you think like that? Yes. So if that's the case do you mean you were less careful in the simulation? 

Speaker 2: No I was trying to be as careful as I can to make sure that my visual especially when I was blindfolded on visual aspects I was I was kind of careless because I knew that I will reach the target correct. 

Speaker 1: Okay so based on your experience what are your views about the system being useful as a training aid for visually impaired people who have just lost their sight? 

Speaker 2: It's a very good start especially you get a feedback from SoundClue that's where major census will be for the people who are who can't see and the feedback from the king these two will be their major clue to rely on navig to rely during the navigation. 

Speaker 1: So for task two and three what was the role of the king for you? 

Speaker 2: I for there wasn't much especially I was feeling the vibration so I knew that I was not walking on the grass that's the only queue I was getting on but the vibration I was still not able to identify the difference between road or pavement because of I was not having a proper sound feedback at the same time with the combination of these two it's good but when the sound of traffic life comes into the picture it becomes very difficult to rely on properly on the feedback on the king. 

Speaker 1: So did you forget about the king due to other auditory engagements or do you think you actually used it in the navigation? 

Speaker 2: When it was keeping vibrating I knew that I am actually walking on the road that's the only walking on the road not on the grass that's the only feedback I was getting from him. I was major reliance on audio feedback from the telephone. 

Speaker 1: Okay so what do you think about the use of king in terms of immersion? Do you think the use of king appropriates the task or not? 

Speaker 2: How good it gives how appropriate it is I am not sure but it does have a role to play during the navigation. 

Speaker 1: In terms of using it in VR or would it have been same if you had used a controller let's say to do the same task? 

Speaker 2: No controller can't give you the same level of feedback especially even if the vibrations it emits how you are going to walk if you are blind folded on the road. So the king plays a really important role. 

Speaker 1: So what are your thoughts on using a flight mail for navigation in the virtual world? 

Speaker 2: It doesn't mimic the real walk but it does the work. 

Speaker 1: So do you think it positively or negatively affects the level of immersion in VR? 

Speaker 2: Instead of imagine that in this treadmill it was actually a treadmill where on which you walk and you can walk actually. That will give a more immersive experience rather than lifting leg up and down and giving it experience of walk. 

Speaker 1: So how do you find it different from what? 

Speaker 2: It is you have a lot of time when you lift your leg up and down you don't feel that in the real VR you are not walking especially like when I was doing visually not blindfolded. I could see that even I am lifting my leg up and down I was not walking so I had to lean my head forward sometime forward sometime back to make sure. At times even sometimes lift my leg a lot of up and down to make sure that it sensor catching my walk. 

Speaker 1: So while talking about realism what do you think about the platform that is around the VR flight mail? How does that help you? 

Speaker 2: That is what emits the surface of the view especially in the VR you have to have touch a surface to make sure that you are walking and that gives you the right platform. 

Speaker 1: So how immersive would the system be for someone with actual visual impairment? So somebody who is blind in the real world how immersive do you think with this system people those kind of people? On scale of 1 to 10? Yeah you can say that. 7? Okay what do you think so? 

Speaker 2: It is because if someone is starting very new I would say this will be very consistent to start with because then person can start understanding the vibrational feedback. It was my first experience so I was not heavily relying on those feedbacks but someone who has to rely on these two feedbacks visual and vibration all the time they will be more immersive than me. Okay. And to rely on all those cues during the actual simulations or actual walk. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So did this experiment change your level of empathy or awareness towards people with visual impairment? 

Speaker 2: Yeah I did like especially when you are blind for any year when you walk you can realize how you are how... I mean how...I don't know how to explain it like how... Then you realize how much you rely on visual cues on your daily life and having not that key look cue can make you you know life upside down. 

Speaker 1: So this experiment did help to change your level of empathy positively? Okay so final question what is your overall feedback on the system and what improvements do you think could be incorporated to make it better? 

Speaker 2: For the keen the level of vibration it gives on different surface I was not able to feel it. I don't know how the system can be changed or not but if it can be implemented like the way when you hear the sound you can clearly differentiate between the sound. So when you say change the experience between the surface when you test the cane but I was not personally experiencing the same experience with the cane. 

Speaker 1: So when you say change the experience with the cane do you mean auditory or through the haptics? 

Speaker 2: Through the haptics like vibration. 

Speaker 1: So that it's better able to differentiate between the surfaces? 

Speaker 2: You can differentiate between the road and grass but not... Similar kind of textures? Similar kind of textures like gravel or... Okay. 

Speaker 1: Alright thank you so much. So that's the end of the interview session. 