Speaker 1: interview question, participant number 20. Alright, so this is going to be an open-ended semi-structured interview. You need to give me answer based upon the experience after this experiment. So let's start with the first question. So what role did various audio experiences play for you to get around in the virtual environment? 

Speaker 2: The hip-hop one and the hot guy one, like that. 

Speaker 1: What role did the audio experiences play for you to get around? 

Speaker 2: Yeah, like to know the direction, like where I am going, where I am heading to. They helped me to find that. Find my goal or destination where I have to go. 

Speaker 1: Okay, so could you share the different kinds of audio you encountered in the VR space, like the different categories of audio? 

Speaker 2: Like for the construction site, I can hear the churning machine sound and to go ahead for the park, I heard about the guy doing the hip-hop dance and like people talking in the bus stop and even like children playing in the playground. So these are the audios. 

Speaker 1: What characteristics of the special audio can you recall from the task form, like the characteristics, the nature or the features of the audio, the task that you performed, like the features of the audio. Features of the audio? Like what specific traits you remember of the audio in the game? Like they were to the point or what? No, you can explain like whatever you felt in the game. 

Speaker 2: Like if I am going to the hot guy place, so I got to know like when the guy was talking about like we are selling hot dogs, so yeah, so that was easy to find where I am right now. 

Speaker 1: Okay, so no particular characteristics that you found? 

Speaker 2: Like the clarity, the clarity was good and they were very loud, very clear, so there was no problem in hearing them and another thing was, they were not getting mixed with the sound of the road or the traffic signals, like as I said they were loud and clear. 

Speaker 1: Okay, so how do you compare the audio of the entire city simulation with that of a real life scenario? 

Speaker 2: You meant to say in the real life? 

Speaker 1: Like how would you compare whatever you experienced, the city simulation, right, with that of a real life scenario? 

Speaker 2: Like the place, when you are in downtown or more crowded area, like maybe the sound get, like there will be a mixture of more sound, so it would not be easy to find out. 

Like when you go near to that, like for example, when you go near to the bus stop, yeah, you will be able to find out that this is the bus stop place, but when are you a bit far from it, so it may not be easy for the blind person to find it. 

Speaker 1: But overall what do you think, like the audio in the simulation was that similar or not similar to that of a real life scenario? 

Speaker 2: It was kind of similar, but sometimes it's like there are places which are more crowded, so maybe like... In that scenario? Yeah, in that scenario it may not work. 

Speaker 1: So can you walk me through what was going through your mind when you had to make decisions during the navigational tasks that you did? How did you decide where to go, how to go about it? 

Speaker 2: Yeah, like when I was looking to the visuals it was quite easy. Without the visuals? Without the visuals. Yeah, it was hard for me to find, I have to go left or right by listening to the sound. Like if I have to find the traffic lights then I have to stop for a while and listen to like which one is the nearer one or the farther one. Like if I have to go for that. 

Speaker 1: So what was the overall decision making process? Like how were you deciding which direction to go? 

Speaker 2: Yeah, that's what I had to stop by and think for a while while making the decision if I have to go left or right. But it was easy, it was not that hard. 

Speaker 1: So how differently do you think your decision making process would change if the same thing had to be done with visuals? 

Speaker 2: Yeah, it was quite easy. I didn't find any challenging. 

Speaker 1: How would your decision making process differ if you had to do the same task with visuals? 

Speaker 2: That's what I'm saying, like if there is like with visuals it was good, like it was not that challenging for me. Like I was able to see around where are the traffic lights and other things. But without visuals like I have to listen to the sound more. 

Speaker 1: So particularly during the first task, did you feel and hear any external natural vibration and sound when the real cane was interacting with the real surface? Apart from the rendered audio and the rendered haptics vibration, did you hear any external sound or vibration? 

Speaker 2: Apart from the metal, like apart from touching the surface? 

Speaker 1: No, no, no. I'm saying whatever you touched, like the things that were touched, like the rendered right from the cane and through the headphones. Apart from that, when the actual cane was touching the actual surface, did you hear or feel anything? So how realistic do you think the vibration or the haptic profiles of the virtual surfaces were? 

Speaker 2: Okay, so you mean to say the sound was the... Not the sound, only the vibration. The vibration, like I was able to differentiate based on the... Like if it is metal or sidewalk, the vibration was different for each thing. 

Speaker 1: So you think it was realistic enough? Yeah, it was realistic. Okay, so for the same task, if you had to choose between any particular source, what would you choose? Audio and haptic? Audio only or haptic only? 

Speaker 2: Haptic is the touch one? Haptic is the vibration. If I had to choose three of them? Yeah, I will choose three of them. But more the audio one. 

Speaker 1: So if you had a choice of audio and haptic, audio only and haptic only, what would you choose? Audio only. So regarding the road crossing and scavenger hunt, the tasks two and three, how would you compare your experience between tasks done with and without visuals? You did the same task with and without visuals, right? So how would you compare your experience in that regard? 

Speaker 2: With visuals, obviously it was easy. Without also, yeah, I was able to do it by hearing the sound. But it was a bit challenging for me like to decide like how far I am from the place. Because of the clue, whatever clue you gave me. So yeah, it was a bit challenging, but both of them were achievable. 

Speaker 1: So did you find any problems doing the second and third tasks without visuals? The road crossing and scavenger hunt? No, I didn't find much. any particular problems during those tasks? Which are you mean without visuals any? 

Speaker 2: Yeah with visuals it was clear for me like where I have to go. Without visuals the way I said I have to stop by anything. 

Speaker 1: What were the problems if there were any problems that you encountered? 

Speaker 2: Like I was not able to, I don't know if I crossed the road or not. So that was a problem but when I hear the completion sound I like, yeah, then I came to know the task is done. And other thing I was not able to see the traffic light but from the sound I can make it out like I am nearby the place. And I was not able to see the bus stop also. 

Speaker 1: So do you think there were any benefits to performing these tasks without visuals? 

Speaker 2: Yeah it was benefit because for example when you use the cane, it was kind of beneficial for the people. 

Speaker 1: What do you think it was beneficial? 

Speaker 2: For example when I was holding the cane I was able to find out if it is a granule one or it is a sidewalk. And when I was going through the pavement I was able to find a group of people who were talking. So I used the bus stop or there were children parked nearby. 

Speaker 1: So would you be able to do these tasks without visuals if you had to repeat it again in the real world? Again the same task? The same task but in the real world. 

Speaker 2: That I have to think, yeah I think so, I can try. 

Speaker 1: But you think you can repeat it? Yeah. So do you think you would be a little bit more cautious? 

Speaker 2: Yeah I have to be because this was a training and that was a real time scenario. As I said the crowd can be different, we don't know. 

Speaker 1: So does that mean you were less careful in the simulation? 

Speaker 2: Like as I said that was a real time scenario and this was a simulation so when you go to a real time thing then that may be a different thing. So I didn't do that so I cannot say the perfect but yeah there will be some difference. 

Speaker 1: So based on your experience what are your views about this system being useful as a training tool for people who have just lost their sight? 

Speaker 2: For them it will be really helpful because first of all if they got to know what it is and the use of it. So it's like initially they will find a bit challenging but when they get acquainted with the system I think it will be easy for them. 

Speaker 1: So for the second and third task the road crossing and scavenger hunt what was the role of the cane for you? What was the role of the cane for you? 

Speaker 2: Like for the second and third task. So when I used to move the cane I got to know if I am on the off side of the road or I am walking in the pavement area. So that was one and other thing can we hear the sound also from it? Yeah because of that also I was able to hear the sound which was loud and clear for me. 

Speaker 1: So do you think you forgot about the cane at times or do you think you actually used it? 

Speaker 2: Yeah I used it while I was at home. 

Speaker 1: So what do you think about using the cane in terms of immersion in the game? Do you think if you had to choose would you choose the cane or would you choose a VR controller to do the same thing? No I will use the cane. Why do you think you would use the cane? 

Speaker 2: Because it's like it was quite comfortable rather than using that VR thing. Okay. Like it was a kind of personal thing for me so I can use it wherever I want. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So what do you think about the use of cane in terms of immersion in the game? Do you think it increased or decreased the immersion level of immersion in the game? 

Speaker 2: In the game like video games real time? In the simulation. No it was perfect for that. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So what are your thoughts on using the slide mill for navigation in virtual reality? The slide mill that you used to walk around here? 

Speaker 2: That was good but it was a bit stiff because I did it for 1 hour 30 minutes. So for us it was a kind of like tiring but it was good. Like it was comfortable. I didn't feel any kind of stress or anything using that. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So do you think it positively or negatively affects the level of immersion? 

Speaker 2: No I don't think it has any effect on that. 

Speaker 1: Like positively or negatively? It was positive. Okay. So how do you, did you find it different from natural walking? 

Speaker 2: Mmm yeah. In what regards? Like the one you used to meet, used the one to tie my leg. Okay. So yeah that was not, like I was not able to lift my leg a bit faster, like I want to move faster but I was not able to. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So apart from that it was? 

Speaker 2: Yeah, apart from that it was fine. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So while talking about realism, what do you think about the wooden platform that is around the slide mill? How do you think it helped you or what was the role of that? 

Speaker 2: I don't think it has much role on it but only thing was like to find, to get to know which, if it is sidewalk or a metal. So I don't think it has much role on that. 

Speaker 1: Okay. So how immersive do you think the system would be for someone with actual visual impairment? So somebody who is blind, if they use the system, how much immersive do you think the system would be for them? 

Speaker 2: Yeah, initially it will be really good. 

Speaker 1: But overall I mean like when they experience the system, similar to how you experienced it? 

Speaker 2: Yeah that's what I'm thinking. Like once they get to know about it, how it operates then I think that will be comfortable for them. 

Speaker 1: So did this experiment change your level of empathy or awareness towards people with visual impairments? Yeah. Can you explain how? 

Speaker 2: It was really, like it was really, I was not sure when we used that blindfold right? So at that time it was really awkward kind of thing I can say. Like I can understand how the blind people, they are not able to walk properly, they can just hear the voice but they don't know the direction. So it would be really difficult for them. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So final question, what is your overall feedback on the system and what improvements do you think could be made? 

Speaker 2: The one I said right, like the standing posture, like if you can make it more comfortable then that will be good. Apart from that, overall feedback? It was fine, it was good, it was a good experience for me. Alright. Okay. That's the end of the interview. 