Speaker 1: Interview question participant 2. Alright, so this is a semi-structured open-ended interview where I'll ask you a bunch of questions and you can answer it according to how you felt and the overall experience based on the different tasks you did. Alright, so let's start. So what do your experiences play for you to get around in the virtual environment? 

Speaker 2: Actually I think like the audio experiences was the major part of it because for me the vibrations were a little bit difficult to understand but with the audio it was easier for me to identify the different materials. 

Speaker 1: So could you share the different kinds of audio you encountered in the VR space? Different kind of as in like the categories of audio. 

Speaker 2: So there were like different audios from the materials, traffic, people, the music. So yeah it was good. 

Speaker 1: So what particular audio do you think you found to be kind of immersive or helped you in navigation? 

Speaker 2: Actually like as more major of the like the tasks were involved in traffic lights and vehicles so I think those two audios were the one which were like majorly responsible to help me fill up the tasks. Okay. 

Speaker 1: And what do you have to say about the interaction with the cane in terms of navigation? 

Speaker 2: It was helpful. Sometimes when I was not able to figure out the audio so the cane was helpful in identifying which material I am on to and if I'm rotating around so I'm able to figure out you know like if there are different materials around myself so it's good for locating myself. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So how realistic were the haptic profiles of the virtual surfaces? 

Speaker 2: For me I was a little bit like the haptic feedback was I was not able to figure out between this granules and the road. Then that everything was good. The gravel. The gravel yeah sorry. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So like what about the realism of the haptic profiles? 

Speaker 2: Those were very good yeah like with the vibrations you can figure out what you are trying to touch. 

Speaker 1: So what are your thoughts on using a slide mill for navigation in VR? As in I didn't get it that. So what are your thoughts on using a slide mill for navigation in VR? So like navigation like like a technique for navigation in VR is mostly something that is stationary and you use your controllers right. So like contrary to that kind of like normal thing what do you think about using a slide mill to navigate in a VR space in a VR environment? 

Speaker 2: I think audio could be like one of the major part. 

Speaker 1: I'm talking about the slide mill the slide mill this one. Oh okay this one. Oh yeah. 

Speaker 2: What about what could like once you get used to it it's very convenient. The only thing is like it takes time to get used to it that's it. 

Speaker 1: Okay. Do you think it affects the level of immersion? 

Speaker 2: It makes you more immersive yeah it's better with that yeah. 

Speaker 1: How do you find it in terms of how do you find it different from actual walking? 

Speaker 2: Other than like what my like you know when when you're walking on a road you feel the surface with your feet. That is the only difference I think you can feel it and plus sometimes you know like when like with the real life scenario like down slow up slow that that things. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So regarding the first task in which you had to differentiate different textures do you think you have a preference for feedback from any particular sensory modality such as audio or haptic or do you believe both are equally important for maximum effectiveness? 

Speaker 2: I think both are equally important. 

Speaker 1: Okay so you do not have any preference about audio and haptic do you? 

Speaker 2: No I don't like I prefer audio more but sometimes you know like which I figure out to if I want to identify grass the haptics were more clear than the sound. Okay nice. 

Speaker 1: Okay so like how would you compare the experience between doing the task the second and third tasks with and without visuals? 

Speaker 2: With visuals obviously it was like quick easier for me to do it. 

Speaker 1: So what what like comparatively what would you say like experience wise doing the same task with and without visuals? I always go for visuals. Yeah your choice is visuals but what was your experience when you compare visuals and non-visuals? 

Speaker 2: So when I was doing the non-visual part like I was completely depending on the sound and the only thing is like when you are with no visuals you are not able to locate yourself are you going in the right path or not and locating yourself in that particular situation is quite difficult you have to analyze hundreds of factors around you whereas when you're going for visuals you just like look at it and you're good to go. 

Speaker 1: Okay so what problems or what problems did you face when you perform tasks two and three without visuals? 

Speaker 2: So the majority of problems I was facing was like you know I was getting lost I was not able to figure out where I'm standing or where I'm going to so I have to figure out a lot of things so for example if I want to go from point A to point B and with visuals it's like two minutes I'm taking like 10 minutes just to analyze that part. 

Speaker 1: Okay yeah. So do you think there are any possible benefits of doing the second and third task with no visuals? 

Speaker 2: I do not know like if you know if you get used to this system like you are trying this system multiple times and you are figuring it out, figuring out things properly. So probably after multiple chances you are able, it is a good thing to do it but for the first time is I would not go for it. 

Speaker 1: So how would you relate doing the second and third task in a scenario if you had to do it in a real world without visuals? The same task crossing the road and scavenger hunt if you had to do it in the real world without visuals. 

Speaker 2: It would be definitely very difficult because yeah the major things which were in the system was also like you know figuring out the sidewalks. 

Speaker 1: So you could do that in the real world as well if you give any cane don't you think? 

Speaker 2: Not that easily. I don't know. 

Speaker 1: Do you think you would be more careful or cautious? 

Speaker 2: I would be definitely more careful and cautious. 

Speaker 1: So I mean like if you think you would be more cautious in the real world do you think you were less careful in the VR world? 

Speaker 2: No I was similarly careful but I know that in the VR world nothing is affecting me physically or mentally because I have no virtual environment but when it comes to real world it is going to be more strict in those terms. 

Speaker 1: Okay so given your experience with doing the task two and three blind folder and everything do you think it would be a helpful training it for someone who like is not visually impaired from birth and like in his teenage years let's say they become visually impaired and they now need to navigate in the real world. Do you think this system can be helpful as a training it? 

Speaker 2: Yes definitely because like it gives you a good experience of analyzing things. So I think so yeah this could be used for those people a lot. 

Speaker 1: Okay what do you think about the cane? What was the role of the cane for the second and third task? 

Speaker 2: So the cane for me usually it was helpful for identifying the things which are around me and when I'm walking so for example if I'm crossing the road I can feel like I'm going from sidewalk to the road to again sidewalk which helped me getting more information like an extra information I can say which the sound wasn't able to give properly I think so in that way it was quite helpful. 

Speaker 1: So like you like did you forget about the cane while doing task two and three because you are busy about other like processing other audio cues or did you were aware that you can use cane? 

Speaker 2: No I was aware that the cane is there and it is anytime helpful. 

Speaker 1: Okay yeah. So what do you think about the overall immersiveness of the cane? About the using the cane and the immersiveness of the cane? 

Speaker 2: Yeah it's actually good the haptics and the cane was really really good it identifies and like helps in identifying things easily so yeah I really liked it. 

Speaker 1: Okay so do you think the scurvy that you see the base that you see around the cane that's which I have named like as a proxy texture do you think that adds realism to the overall experience? This plank right? Yeah the plank. 

Speaker 2: Well actually yes because when you're touching the cane to that surface it gives you a different experience altogether and I think so it would be good. 

Speaker 1: Okay so if you have to explain like how immersive do you think the overall system would be for someone who is visually impaired? 

Speaker 2: So how immersive? So actually the system is quite good so from from walking to moving you are in there to analyzing the haptics as well as the visuals system is really powerful and I think people who are visually impaired and at one point in time in the life they were able to see something so this thing this system can help them analyzing things more better and would be benefit for them for the lifetime yeah. 

Speaker 1: Okay so since you've completed all the tasks that were necessary for this particular user study do you think this experiment changed your level of empathy or awareness towards people with visual impairment? If yes could you explain how? 

Speaker 2: Definitely yes because like I had no clue about the blindfolded thing like before doing the blindfold how people might be looking at and how they might be experiencing it and like earlier you know like I used to see people out and they were like you know it was like I used to feel it okay like they are using a cane probably it might not be that difficult but when I get into the system things are very complicated for me so yeah it's definitely a good experience. 

Speaker 1: Okay so like your level of empathy towards people has increased yeah. 

Speaker 2: So in a nutshell what is your overall feedback on the system and 

Speaker 1: what overall feedback let's start with that overall feedback I think so you know like system 

Speaker 2: is quite good it's really like working out with the person around the only thing sometimes I've felt was you know like the haptics well I'm not able to figure out the haptics I already told that 

Speaker 1: so like like haptics you couldn't figure out was like in terms of the system not able to emit it or you not able to process it? 

Speaker 2: I think so you know like if I I don't know I might be very wrong with that as well that the haptics for the dirt kind of gravel and the road was more or less similar for me so it could be my problem is that I was not able to figure it out but I thought like if it could be more differentiated in some way it could be better 

Speaker 1: yeah okay so what improvements do you think could be made? I think majorly haptics that's it majorly haptics yeah like in terms of the level of differentiation yeah 

Speaker 2: in terms of level of differentiation yeah any other thing no I don't think so 

Speaker 1: okay yeah so their overall feedback was positive it's very good it's really yeah all right okay then thank you for this participation 