Speaker 1: Okay, interview questions, participant number 13. So this is going to be an open-ended semi-structured interview where you need to answer me depending on what you've experienced after this experiment. Alright, so let's start with the first question. So what role did various audio experiences play for you to get around in the virtual environment? 

Speaker 2: It was how I like localized where I was or how I knew where I was at like a certain, like, gold, certain area. And it, like for the traffic lights specifically, it let me know when it was okay to pass. And the women in front of the park, they kind of helped guide me where I needed to go. 

Speaker 1: Yeah. So could you share the different categories or different kinds of audio that you encountered in the VR space? 

Speaker 2: Well, there was like the car audio which kind of helped me figure out where the road was. And like, it was kind of helpful, but at the same time, like the cars would be moving left and right. So I kind of had to like judge based off of knowing that kind of where the road was. And then there was like the traffic light. And then the traffic light just, like I said before, let me know when it was okay to pass and like when cars would be kind of going through. And then there would be just like other indicators of where I am. Like the bus stop people on dog stand, you know, like all those noises were just kind of like letting me know kind of where I am. 

Speaker 1: So what characteristics of the spatial audio can you recall from the tasks performed? Characteristics? Characteristics, like the attributes. Um, the car? That you can recall. 

Speaker 2: Like the cars were just, the cars were really loud, so it kind of made it harder for me to hear other things that could be more helpful. Like things that were like quieter. 

And so like the people speaking, for example, like I was kind of hard for me to find where they were for the second word for the first scavenger hunt, I think. Just because like cars were so loud and going by. And I think there's also like the walking sound, which was kind of helpful. But that would always be like both covered by other noises like the cars, namely. 

Speaker 1: So how would you compare the spatial audio of the city simulation with that of a real life scenario? 

Speaker 2: I think it's pretty accurate. There'd be like a lot of smaller sounds. Like, you know, I'm sure there'd be more people talking. There'd be more like the sounds would carry a lot farther, I'd say. But for like the general, like most of the sounds you hear, like 90% of the sounds, like I'd say are covered like pretty well. 

Speaker 1: So can you walk me through your decision making process during the navigation tasks, the road crossing and the scavenger hunt that you did without visuals? 

Speaker 2: Well, I try and get as close as I could to the, like whatever sound I was trying to like stay near. So like whether that be the road crossing sound or like whatever people, like if I had to, you know, what's called, like get to that goal. I try and get as close as I could just by taking like one step at a time. And then for the road crossing, if I, you know, if I just heard that it was like it was okay for me to go, I try and use the cane to like figure out if I was on the road versus on like the sidewalk. 

And then, yeah. I just, I try and keep the cane in front of me kind of like as a marker of where I was looking, because like I don't want to get turned up and like be slightly off in some way. So I use that sometimes to like move 90 degrees to the right perfectly. But I also would like turn my head around a lot to see if I could like pinpoint where a noise was. 

Speaker 1: And yeah. So the decisions that you took in order to navigate without visuals, how do you think like you would differently think if you had to make the same decision, but this time like you were able to see like how does decision making process differ? 

Speaker 2: Well, I wouldn't really need to use like a lot of the like tactics like the cane. I wouldn't really need to use the cane as much because I could see where I was on the road and I could see if I was on the sidewalk. And even then I wouldn't really need to use the traffic light sound. 

I could just watch when the car stops. I think that the like listening for voices or like whatever sound I'm listening for, like I think looking around would still I mean be helpful for that. Like not even looking around just with my eyes, but you know, listening for it would still be helpful. But of course, like accompanied with visuals, it would be a lot more like easy to confirm where it was. And I wouldn't really need to take those like little steps forward because I'd know, you know, if I was at whatever goal. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So during the first task, the surface differentiation task, did you feel and hear any external, a natural vibration and or sound emitted from when the real came was interacting with the actual service? 

Speaker 2: Yeah. I'd hear like just a gliding a cloth across the plastic. And I especially heard it during the third portion when it was just the haptics. I don't know if that really I don't think it really affected or like distracted me much, but yeah, it was like still kind of present. 

Speaker 1: So how do you think the haptic profiles of the virtual surfaces were? 

Speaker 2: I think that they were like in at least enough to where I could like differentiate like intuitively which ones were what like which faced off of that haptic technology. Are you also asking for like the audio as well? No, no, no, just the haptics. Yeah, I think I think that I'd say it worked well just because yeah. 

Speaker 1: Okay. So regarding task one, do you prefer feedback from any particular sense and modality such as audio haptic? Or do you believe both are equally important for maximum effectiveness? 

Speaker 2: I think audio was much more helpful than haptic. 

Speaker 1: So if you had to choose between audio and haptic, audio only and haptic only, what would you choose? Given that you're not able to see. 

Speaker 2: Would this be like in a kind of city setting where I'd be like where there'd be other noises I guess 

Speaker 1: or just still the same? Maybe like what would the choice change depending upon the circumstances? 

Speaker 2: I think that if it was just like to detect, you know, the same as task one, but if I could choose if I had haptics or audio or both, I'd say that it wouldn't really matter to have haptics. 

But if it was like in a city setting where I had to detect what the surface was like at the end of task three, each of the sub-tags for task three, then I'd say that both were important. Because there were a lot of surrounding noises that would cover up the sound of the ground that it would make. And so I'd probably have to use the haptics a lot more for that. Like I think at the end of task one specifically, the hot dog stand just kept making, just kept yelling that there was hot dogs. So I tried to use the haptics a lot for that. And that's like the one situation where I think I used haptics much more than audio or like the haptics was much more helpful than audio. But like, yeah, I think that situation is like fairly common. 

Speaker 1: So regarding the second and third task, how would you compare your experience between tasks done with and without visuals? 

Speaker 2: It was a lot easier to do it with visuals. I mean, I think like it was just easier because, you know, I'm used to having visuals to do those tasks. But it was just easier to know where it was. It was easier to know when I should cross, easier to know when I was on the other side of the sidewalk, like where I was generally. It was much easier to have visuals. 

Speaker 1: So were there any problems that you encountered doing these tasks, second and third without visuals? 

Speaker 2: When I was trying to find like the bus stop people on the first task of, or first sub-task of task three, I thought I heard them relatively close by and then I like seem to have lost them. And so I had to like try and venture out from where I knew I was to find them again. And then eventually I did, but that was like something I'd say that I was slightly worried about. And then I crossed the road when, or like before I like said that I crossed the road basically, and so I kind of had to turn around and go back across the road. And so that was a little difficult just because the sound was coming from the other side. 

And so it was like a little bit quieter. And I had to, I had to really use my special awareness to know like which way I was facing compared to like the last 20 seconds. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So do you think there were any benefits to performing these tasks, the visuals? 

Speaker 2: I think that it's helpful. I think it's good to try and like complete these tasks like these with the visuals in the case like that I won't have visuals in the future. Like, you know, maybe it's like kind of training. 

I don't know. It was definitely a different experience. But other than just like preparing me, I guess, or like if in the future I don't have access to site, you know, I might be better. And I definitely say it's really good at training my special awareness. 

Like I could feel that I was getting better as we got to the past three and like later on. But yeah, definitely spatial awareness and like that kind of, I guess spatial awareness training. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So how do you relate this experience to performing the task without visuals if you have to do it in a real world setting? Could you repeat the question? So how would you relate this experience of performing the second and third task without visuals if you had to do it in a real world setting? 

Speaker 2: I think that like overall the goals that I had were like similar like the methods that I'd go about completing the tasks, like finding these intermediate goals intermittent to kind of like lead me to the final goal. But yeah, I think yeah, it would just be an overall similar process but like obviously not completely. 

Speaker 1: So would you be more cautious or more aware of the thing? More careful? 

Speaker 2: Probably, yeah. Like I'd probably try and like localize myself more by like grabbing like a wall or something around me, like trying, I might pick out more sub goals if it was a real world setting, especially if I'm not familiar with the location or like wherever it is. 

Speaker 1: Does that mean you are less careful in the virtual world or the simulation? 

Speaker 2: I think I probably was, yeah, just because I knew it was virtual reality, like there was a part of me that was just like, yeah, I'm not actually going to, I mean I didn't want to perform badly but at the same time, yeah, I didn't know like which way I was facing compared to like the road and like how close I was to the road and so I didn't really, I guess, care as much as I would in real life. Maybe it's because in real life like the curb would actually have like, you know, a ledge, like physicalness so that if I tripped on it, it would be worse than just like walking off the ledge in VR without looking. But yeah, I think if I was in like real life and I didn't have any visual information trying to complete tasks like those, I would be a lot more careful. 

Speaker 1: So based on your experience, what are your views about this system being useful as a training aid for novice visually impaired users? 

Speaker 2: I think if like the haptic technology would probably have to be more robust and like more specific and so it could be like more aligned with what the real haptic like experience would be. I think, yeah, that would definitely be one thing. There might have to be more adjustments but like that's probably the biggest one I can think of like the haptic being more specific and being more, I guess, realistic but there's only so much you can do with that. Like I know people's canes would sometimes get stuck in grass and so they'd kind of have to do like a skip kind of motion and so that's not really feasible with like VR and if it's on a flat plane like this. 

Speaker 1: So for the navigation task to entry, what was the rule of the game for you? 

Speaker 2: For two, as I mentioned before I'd like use it to tell when I was on the road and then when I got across the road, if I got to a sidewalk I'd kind of feel a difference or like hear difference hopefully and then I could tell I can stop walking. 

And in task three, it was similar story as well as at the very end when I had to find the correct texture. I'd say that those are the biggest usages. 

Speaker 1: So, I mean, did you forget at times about it due to other auditory engagements or do you think you actually used it? 

Speaker 2: I think, yeah, I think sometimes I just forgot about it and then when I was like walking forward I'd realize, oh yeah, I could probably have the cane down and it might be helpful. I think I used it more near the end with the roads, less so for like task one or task two, but yeah, I definitely forgot to use it at some point. 

Speaker 1: So, while talking about cane, what do you think the use of cane in terms of immersion? Do you think the use of cane appropriates the task or would you have preferred a conventionally controlled one? 

Speaker 2: I think that the canes were actually helpful. Yeah, I don't think it appropriated it at all. Like, yeah, it just made it more... It was easier to just like... Sorry. I felt it was easier to move around with the cane and to kind of better get a sense of where it was. 

Speaker 1: So what are the thoughts on using the slide bin for navigation in VR? Like that thing you walked on? 

Speaker 2: I felt that it was sometimes like I'd move but it wouldn't move me and then like during texting I found that I'd take a step and sometimes it wouldn't move me or I'd take a step and sometimes it'd move me twice. But like overall it was pretty consistent and I'd say it was more realistic than just using a joystick, you know? And it was easier for me to tell compared to a joystick how fast I was going because relatively speaking the steps I was taking were like about as far as they would be in real life. Had I just taken a small step it was kind of like the same thing so it was easy for me to kind of... Yeah, move around in that way. 

Speaker 1: So do you think it positively affected the level of immersion in the game? Yeah, I'd say so. So did you find it different from walking though? 

Speaker 2: Definitely. I normally take like larger strides and my feet certainly hurt more than like normal walking around but yeah. 

Speaker 1: Okay. So talking about realism, what do you think about the platform, the wooden platform that is around the slide bin? Do you think it helped you in any way? 

Speaker 2: Yeah, I'd say it was helpful to have like a physical kind of boundary for when my cane would be on the ground. There were times where I would turn or like I wouldn't be able to fully reach around to the left and it kind of slid off. That wasn't the most like immersion, I was kind of immersion breaking but other than that I'd say it was pretty good. Like it didn't really occur to me much that it wasn't like, you know, like I think the plastic on wood kind of texture was very neutral and didn't add much to my interpretation of where it was. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So how immersive would the system be for someone with actual visual impairment? What do you think? So for somebody who's been in line for a while, what do you think how immersive this system would be? 

Speaker 3: I think it'd be, I think it'd certainly be different for them. Like I feel like for them it'd feel much more simplistic, like much, much more simplistic. Just because like instead of feeling all these different textures like having the cane move against, it would just be through haptic and on like wood. But overall I think that it would be a good simulation. But like, yeah, much, much more simplistic but it is immersive in its own way. 

Speaker 1: So did this experiment change your level of empathy or awareness towards people with visual impairment? 

Speaker 2: I'd say so, yeah. Next in line? Well, I see how hard it is to cross a road now if you don't have any visual aid. And I mean, when the lady told me where the park entrance was, I was legitimately like, thank you so much. 

I had no idea where I was going. So yeah, I think in the future now I'd definitely be much more, I'd try and be much more helpful and like, you know, like stay out of their way as well. Just so I don't like, you know, accidentally do anything wrong. 

Speaker 1: So the last question, what is your overall feedback on the system and what improvements do you think could be made? 

Speaker 2: I think moving the wood kind of closer so that I wouldn't fall off is an easy improvement. I don't know how much more the advanced haptics can go. As I mentioned before, like it would probably be more realistic to have haptics like a certain, you know, with like more depth to it. And I don't know if like, do you know those like treadmill kind of platforms? That might be more helpful because people could then take like steps that they're more used to or they could like, you know, change their base, take steps in like a specific size, I guess, instead of just like stepping in place. I think that the like audio was good, like the headphones worked really well and the blindfold, I mean, it was just a blindfold, but you know, it worked. And yeah, other than those, I think that the system is very good. 