Okay, 

Speaker 1: any question? Participant number 16. So this is going to be a semi-structured open-ended interview. So you need to tell me answer based on your experience from this experiment. So first question for you. What role did various audio experiences play for you to get around in the virtual environment? 

Speaker 2: What audio? 

Speaker 1: A different audio that you heard. How did it help you to move and to navigate in the virtual environment? 

Speaker 2: Okay, the voices of the people, the light traffic and the instructions and the ones who are selling the hot dogs. So all the surrounding environment audios, it was very clear to help me navigate. However, I felt that the audio regarding the movement of the texture of the floor was not very clear and didn't really help me to navigate. I believe to get the destination. I would like to know what that felt like. 

Speaker 1: So could you share the different kinds of audio that you encountered in the VR space? All of them? Like what do you think you heard? 

Speaker 2: So the instructions, construction voices, also children playing, hip hop, dancing, people dancing hip hop, women talk together. People talking and the hot dog man. 

Speaker 1: Remember the hot dog guy? So the audio that you heard in the task, what are the characteristics of the audio that you heard? Like the different nature or different attributes of the audio that you heard in the game? The nature of the audio. How did it differ depending on where you were or what did you feel? 

Speaker 2: So the environment audios really helped me to understand where I am standing. Especially for example, the cars voices is helping me to understand if it's like a street or something or I'm close to the street. The traffic light also helped me to understand this. I'm not answering the slides, but people talking, that makes me feel like I am in the right side of the road. For example, I'm in the safe side standing by the people in the bus station or something. So this is the nature. I don't understand the questions. 

Speaker 1: So how would you compare the audio that you heard in the simulation with a real life scenario? Compare. If you had to compare. 

Speaker 2: I believe, yeah, it's, I believe it's, it can't come back. It is can reflect the real voices, especially I believe the traffic. I mean cars and the traffic voices and how loud the street and can be like a lot in certain places, other than the other places. So I believe that it can be very close to the real environment. 

Speaker 1: So can you just let me know what was going through your mind when you had to decide which way and how to go during the navigation tasks that you did, like the road crossing and the scavenger hunt when you did it without visuals. What was going through your mind? How did you decide which way to go or not go? 

Speaker 2: You mean like what's helped me through navigating that? I mean the instructions, like if you told me like when you told me like it will be like in front of you so that how also hearing the voice clearly like inform this direction. It's helped me to go through that direction. There's sometimes like when I pass the voices, I was like feeling like, yeah, that's too much. So I have to get in back. So I believe that helped me to navigate through this. 

Speaker 1: So how do you think if you had to do like how do you think your decision making process change if you had to do the same task with visuals? Like how the decision making would change? 

Speaker 2: I will not be relying mostly on their voices. I will be like relying more on that but I can see like in the state I believe that will change. Okay that would change. 

Speaker 1: So when you were doing the first task that is to identify the texture apart from what you heard through the cane and the headphones, did you hear any external natural vibrations or sounds when the real cane was touching the surface? An external sound or vibration that you heard? 

Speaker 2: In the first task? In the first task. Rather than the... 

Speaker 1: No, I don't... You want to recall? Okay. So how do you think how realistic the vibrations were for the virtual surfaces? 

Speaker 2: Not very... Because I didn't find it like very distinct that the voices are not very distinct to form one texture to another. Also the vibration I couldn't really tell what exactly this is the grass or this is the gravel or this is the sidewalk. Like it was very vague. 

I found it and... But for example like when the first task when there is only those textures around me I can maybe distinguish between them. But with the second and third tasks they were mixed with the environment other voices so it was really hard to distinguish. 

Speaker 1: So for the first task if you had to choose like audio and haptic, audio only and vibration only. So audio and vibration, audio only and vibration only. What would you choose? 

Speaker 2: Audio and vibration. 

Speaker 1: Okay. If you had to choose you would choose both audio and vibration. Yeah. Okay. So for tasks 2 and 3 crossing the road and scavenger hunt you did the task with and without visuals right? With and without the blindfold. So how would you compare your experience of the same task with and without visuals? 

Speaker 2: So I found it like especially like the second and third tasks were a little bit demanding. But I of course like with a visual like when I like like do the same experience with seeing the with a vision it's made like more clear. But yeah I but I don't know about that honestly. Like but yeah I didn't find it it's demanding. It's not easy but I feel like I can't like tell like this is you know through the voices from the environment and the texture. I can't tell like where to go or something and to complete a task that I have to do. 

Speaker 1: So what problems exactly did you encounter when you were doing the second and third task? 

Speaker 2: The problem is so you ask a question about whether I am lacking in grass or gravel and I couldn't tell that. That was not very clear especially with the only voices who are very loud. I found this is challenging. Also yeah but it was like hard for example to go to the direction for the voice. Because sometimes the voice it feels like in both ways going here and there like there is no like a clear direction of where to go. So the voices like this is like sometimes I could tell and sometimes it was big like it was not clear which direction that the voices coming from. So I was like where here or there or there. 

Speaker 1: to performing these tasks without visuals? Of course. 

Speaker 2: I mean, this is for the blind people, right? And to understand how these things can help them. So, yes. 

Speaker 1: Okay. So, if you had to do the same thing in the real world, with the blind world and the cane, would you be able to do it? 

Speaker 2: I don't believe so. 

Speaker 1: Why do you think so? Why do you think you can't do it? 

Speaker 2: I don't believe I did well. 

Speaker 1: I can't believe it. So, that would be awful. So, do you think you would be like... I will be in the middle of this. 

Speaker 2: I don't know. It would be hard to be in the real world, using the art without... Of course, the cane and people with vision impairments, they learn how to do this by the time. So, of course, we can learn that by the time, but not immediately going through that. 

Speaker 1: So, that means you would be more careful? Yes, of course. So, it doesn't mean you were less careful when you had to do it in VR? 

Speaker 2: Not exactly. No, I was really trying to... Until now, I'm trying to be really honest and give the experience, exactly that I'm there of doing that, but you can tell, you understand this is not real, so, of course, this is not like a life-saving situation, so you will not give this attention as you were in the real world. But I was trying to be feeling that this is real. 

Speaker 1: So, based on your experience, what do you think will this system be useful as a training for someone who just lost their sight? 

Speaker 2: Yes, of course. 

Speaker 1: Why do you think that? 

Speaker 2: Because it's dangerous to go in the real world without training. As I mentioned, it can be dangerous, it can be life-saving, but if you just keep trying and train yourself before that, I believe that will be a good option. 

Speaker 1: So, you think the system will help with that? 

Speaker 2: It will help. 

Speaker 1: So, when you were doing the road crossing and scavenger hunt, what was the role of the key in for you? 

Speaker 2: I tried, but it was not that important role, honestly, because the sounding voices were so loud, so I was relying on the voices more than the texture, because I couldn't really hear or feel the texture with all what's happening there. 

Speaker 1: So, do you think you forgot about the key, or do you think you actually used it? 

Speaker 2: I did use it, but it was, I will say, maybe 10% only. I didn't rely on it. 

Speaker 1: So, what do you think about the use of cane in terms of meeting the experience that you had? Do you think if we had used something like a joystick or a VR controller, would you think it would have been the same experience? 

Speaker 2: I'm not sure about this. 

Speaker 1: I mean, we used the cane to control everything in the game. So, if we had replaced the cane, let's say that's a joystick, that's the controller, do you think your experience would be the same without the cane? 

Speaker 2: Maybe, but the experience is about, you know, feeling the streets right, and feeling the roads and everything, and I don't know how the controller will be like a replacement for that. So, the cane is, give the sense that you are attached with the floor, and you can tell, like, give this sense of feeling, like you are touching the ground and something, so the controller will be different feeling. It will be like floating or something, I don't know, maybe. Okay, you got it. 

Speaker 1: So, what do you think about the sliding of the thing you used to navigate in VR? What do you think about that? 

Speaker 2: You mean this? It's cool, I like it. 

Speaker 1: Do you think it, like, positively or negatively affects the level of realism in VR? What do you think? 

Speaker 2: So, to the high percentage, it was, like, effective. I do find the walking, like the speed of walking, and to control this, it was not very smooth, maybe because this is my first time, maybe if I'm used to this in games or something, I will be, like, you know, doing that very easily, but I was, like, strungle to control the speed, but I think it's effective, so. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So, how did you find the difference from walking? Natural walking? 

Speaker 2: It's not like, I do find, like, the steps responding in the same way, like my steps and rewards, so it's a little bit stuff, it's not that smooth, like, when you walk. 

Speaker 1: Okay. So, while talking about realism, what do you think about the platform, the wooden platform, that is around the slide, how do you think that helped you? 

Speaker 2: To hear the floor and the texture, yes, it helped. I mean, to have the stick and feeling the floor, so, yeah. Okay. 

Speaker 1: So, how do you think, like, how would this system be for someone who is actually blind? Like, how do you think if they use the system, if someone is, like, for someone who is actually blind, how do you, or how immersive the system would be for them? 

Speaker 2: I believe that depends on the blind people and the specific environments that this person is, for example, if it's like 95 from Nova Scotia, so it will be, like, maybe, train their system or their scenarios, which will be exactly like the city and the language people talking and the voices, the things, voices, so it will be, like, reflecting their city, so if the blind people will, like, train through this, that will help them to navigate in the real city. 

And if it's, like, a different city, so maybe the scenarios and everything should be different so they can train in different ways. So, I think it can be helpful, but it's also depending on, like, if it can be, like, really customized through what they need, the blind people. All right. 

Speaker 1: So, this is experiment change, your level of empathy or awareness towards people with visual impairment? 

Speaker 2: Yes, yes, very much, yeah. Can you explain how? I can explain that. It's, I mean, feeling that you are in the state, or, like, outdoor environment and hear all these assimilations and voices and there can be something that spreads your life and also there are things that can guide you, but also, for example, like, the voices that can guide you, for example, the hot dogs, man, they can't always shout about the hot dogs, so that can be not very, like, a good guidance, so it's very hard to be, like, relying on other things, other than your eyes, so it's something I believe, like, is, like, mind-tasking as well, so I have, like, empathy now with blind people. I mean, of course, I am before, but it's not like, but now I can't tell how, like, is mind-demanding this task is for people who can't see. Yeah. 

Speaker 1: So final question, what is your overall feedback on the system and what improvements do you think can be made? 

Speaker 2: Maybe I will say, like, make it more realistic, for example, like some, like, the movement as I thought, is a little bit of stuff that's straight or maybe something like, this improvement can be done, I believe any improvement can be done to make it, like, more realistic, it will be, like, a huge improvement. 

Speaker 1: So what's your overall feedback about the system, though? 

Speaker 2: I find it very, very useful, and, yeah, my feedback is positive, but I can't, how to say that. It's good. Yeah. All right. That's the end of the interview. 